Hey folks my name is John Thompson. I am the founder of Spring Framework Guru.
So in this video we are going to take a look at creating RESTful web services using Spring Boot. So we
are going to be looking at Spring Boot 2 and Spring Framework 5. Inside of that Spring Framework
5 actually introduced two web frameworks.
One is Spring MVC and then the other is WebFlux.
In this video we're going to be looking specifically at Spring MVC and the annotation controller style
based of generating web services using Spring and Spring Boot.
We are going to be using Spring Boot to kind of jumpstart things a little bit for us.
And I'm going to show you how we can rapidly build a web service a very basic web RESTful web service
using these tools.
So this web service that we're going to build is going to be backed by an H2 in-memory database which
we could easily swap out for any other relational database.
Between that we are going to be using Hibernate for the JPA provider, so JPA  Java Persistence API.
That is the standard ORM tool for Java.
So we are going to be utilizing that.
And on top of that I'm going to show you how to use Spring Data JPA for that. So that provides us a wrapper
a real handy wrapper.
All we have to do is declare our entity and then an interface using Spring Data JPA and we have our persistent
services built. So Spring Boot can take care of transactions and setting up a data source for us.
Initializing, entity scan. That is all handled by this framework so there is a lot that we're not going
to do but it is provided by for us through Spring Boot.
And then finally we are going to set up a REST controller to show you how to set up several RESTful
endpoints and we're going to use JSON as our language primarily JSON not going to be dealing with
XML just JSON in this example. But I'll show you how to get a list of objects back from the database
so we are going to make a full trip to get to the database and then run or back JSON to the web client
both and we'll show you how to get it get it by ID.
And we'll even show you how to create new objects in the database using a post, HTTP POST method.
So we're going to cover a lot of ground on this so this is a very introductory type level video for
creating RESTful webservices using Spring MVC.
And this is all built around Spring Boot 2 and Spring 5.
So a lot of really cool content if you're not familiar with the Spring Framework.
This is a really good video to see how we can create or how you can create RESTful web services using
Spring MVC.
All right in this video we are going to take a look at creating RESTful web services using Spring Framework
and specifically the Spring Framework 5 and we're going to look at using the MVC library with insight
of Spring Framework 5.
And this is kind of the traditional way of building web services with Spring Framework.
And to do this that there's actually two different ways we're going to Spring initializer to create
the project.
There's two methods I'm going to show you both of them and the first method is to go over to a start
.spring.io and this is a website that the Spring team has set up for us to rapidly create
projects.
And what's really nice about this is that it creates a set of curated dependencies using Spring Boot
and a parent POM.
If you go back 10 years ago before Spring Boot actually Spring Boot came a couple of years ago about 10 years
ago and were doing Spring applications.
The mixture of dependencies was very tricky so this is a huge step up for us as far as creating that
initial project. So I'm going to go ahead and use a Maven project and obviously we are going to be using
Java.
And here I am going to be using the new, new Spring Spring Boot 2 and right now at the time recording
we're at milestone 7 and this is supposed to be the final milestone before we go on to release candidates.
So right now they're still doing some integration with the different libraries of the Spring Framework.
But for what we're doing is this is going to be very stable something else like that.
And I'm not going to change a group id that this but I am going to switch over to the full version
right here so we can see the different options and you can see there's a lot going on here.
But the first thing we want to do is grab the web and we are going to play with Project Lombok.
That's a really cool project that we can utilize and don't get confused here we're not going to be setting
up REST repository or web services. This option for web services here is specifically for Soap web services
but we are going to be doing REST web services and scroll down here and we are going to be using JPA
and this is going to bring in Spring Data JPA. So that's some really cool stuff.
And for our purposes we are just going to be using the H2 database so that's going to be an in memory
database that's perfectly fine for our demonstration to show you how to set things up with that being
that we are doing RESTful web services we don't need a template engines and you can see there's a lot
of options here especially for cloud.
We're not getting into the cloud stuff right now and stuff is read out.
So it's not ready for Spring Boot 2.
But we do want to bring in Spring Boot Actuator We'll show you some cool stuff with that.
So I'm going to go ahead and generate the project and you can see here that we downloaded the zip file
and this is one way that we can generate this inside this file is going to be a completely configure
project for us.
It's going to have stuffs of a couple of classes and then Maven POM with all dependencies on
it.
But what I'm going to do is show you how to do the same thing inside of IntelliJ.
So let's come back over here to IntelliJ.
And what I want to do is say New Project.
You can see that I have this new project dialog up and you can see it's going against URL of start
.spring.io.
And if you look at the Chrome it's the same URL, the start.spring.io. So IntelliJ is going over
to the spring.io website and utilizing the spring initializer right under the covers.
But we can do everything right from inside of our IDE.
Now the first thing I want to do is come up here and select the latest Java version on my machine that's
1.5.2 and I'm going to go ahead and click on next and I'm going to change the domain here.
If you're new to Java development for packages and also groups you always use the reverse domain name
so that prevents class conflicts so long held tradition inside the Java community.
And we'll just call artifacts spring-mvc-rest. So you will be using Spring MVC and just go ahead
and click on next.
And now you can see these options here these options look a lot like what we saw on the web here.
Notice all the same or similar options you should have everything here.
You can see the major cloud discovery circuit breaker.
Cloud messaging it's a circuit breaker.
Cloud messaging etc. are here and these are different categories that we can select from.
So here we want to grab Project Lombok, SQL, also we want JPA and H2 and then down here on Ops,
we wanted to do Actuator and also you can see up here the Spring Boot version.
We want to get to the M7 version so that Spring Boot 2 which includes Spring Framework 5 at the time
of recording we have M7 that's Milestone 7 of Spring Boot 2.
This is expected to be the final milestone.
Before we go into the release candidate so at the end of January 2018 they are expected to release R
C1 which would be the first release candidate for Spring Boot
2.
So let's go ahead and select this stuff inside of M7 is pretty stable they're just resolving a few
edge cases right now as some of the smaller libraries but for our purposes the stuff that we are working
out is going to be pretty stable going forward.
So I'm going to go ahead say next and I'm checking.
Just double checking the spring-mvc-rest and I'm happy with where it storing on my machine so I am going
to click Finish.
I mean right now IntelliJ is going out there.
Downloaded that zip file and it's unzipping it and now it's mounting the project. You can see down to the bottom
of the screen.
It is going through its indexing the project downloading dependencies.
And now we can see that everything has come up and can see here's a project structure that is created.
And let's take a look at the Maven POM here and can see this is the data that I provided is customized
that Maven POM for us based on the data we provided in the setup and what's important here.
That's really nice.
By using Spring initializer is that we are going against the Spring Boot Starter parent project and what
this does for us is it brings down a set of curated dependencies. You notice here none of the stuff in
here is specifying version information so that's all curated by pivotal in the backers a Spring Framework.
And now we're getting a set of dependencies that are going to work together we're not missing anything
so we're going to get everything that we need.
And before Spring Boot setting all this stuff up was a huge headache.
Absolute huge headache because it takes you a day or so to go through find all the dependencies and
then get in there like Oh I'm missing this jar or Oh I need this version.
So this really alleviates a lot of headaches from the developer because I remember starting off in the
early days and it was really kind of like the Wild West trying to get the right mix know spend a half
a day trying to get things set up and down here on line 63 we can see that we have repositories and
this is because we are on the release candidates and milestones so we need to include these as well
as snapshots for the plugins. So that those are Maven dependencies. Let's go ahead and take a look at this.
You can see here's our project I might just take a look at the dependencies and show you what's happening
here so we have the Spring Boot Starter JPA and it's actually bring in Spring Boot Starter AOP, JDBC,
Hibernate.
There's the H2 database and what this is bringing in is a lot of different dependencies for us and
also Spring Boot Starter Actuator. We can see that the various things that are bringing in.
So we get a lot of dependencies right out of the box by bringing in the Spring starters and it also includes in here.
And here you can see that it brought in the spring-boot-starter-test.
And so right out the box we are going to get things like JUnit and Mockito and Hamcrest.
These are all very common libraries that we have to include manually if we were not using Spring Boot.
So this is a really handy thing to start up. We are going to collapse that panel and lets come over here
and expand out the source.
Let's take a look at what was created for so get the whole project structure created and we see that
we have a standard SpringBootApplication and this is a special class here that this is going to be used
to launch Spring Boot.
So this SpringBootApplication saying, run this class this class is actually a Spring Boot configuration
class. So we can add in bean, sent in here configuration options.
You'll see a lot of demonstrations of that.
I'm not a big fan of that.
I like to keep my configuration separate.
I just think that's a little more tidy to do in your organization.
But one thing that does trip up new people to Spring Boot is this class is going to do a component scan
in this package and down.
So if I were to create something a Spring component and justguru.springframework this class would
not pick it up so I'd have to tell it to specifically look there. But everything that we're going to
do today is going to be working from this package.
So it's automatically going to pick that up so we're going to get a lot of Spring Boot goodness and
a lot of people call it magic.
But once you understand the broader Spring Framework it's a lot of it's taken care of a lot of stuff's
making sensible defaults and sensible choices for things that you'd normally have to do anyways.
But Spring Boot is going to provide that for us.
So the first thing that we want to do for a demonstration is set up a domain class or we're going to
use JPA for this. So I am going to come in here.
Create a new package and call that domain.
And let's come in here and we'll just do a Customer object so nothing too too fancy and make great new
class called Customer.
Now to make this a JPA class we want to do. So we are bringing in our Java persistence.
Give it an id value.
firstname and ...
Now what I could use IntelliJ to generate the getters and setters and whatnot but I'm going to show
you a shortcut.
And we are going to use Project Lombok and we are going to annotate this with the Data annotation.
So it's going to happen here.
Let's take a closer look at the Data.
Some down command click on Data.
So this is going to set up getters, setters, required args constructor, toString and equal code. So
Project Lombok through.
It's an annotation processor so hooks into the Java compile process is going to create these classes
for us.
So that's going to set everything up for us so we don't have to generate all that boilerplate code.
Project Lombok can do it just by annotating that class.
It's real handy tool to use if you are falling along inside of IntelliJ,
you might come up here to project settings and go under build ,compiler, annotation processors and make
sure that you have enable annotation processing clicked off.
Because IntelliJ may not be happy.
I am a non Eclipse user but believe there is something similar inside of Eclipse where you want to enable
annotation processing and I'm pretty sure that there is a plugin for Project Lombok with Eclipse but
I am the wrong person about to ask for tips on Eclipse because I have not used Eclipse and a number
of years.
I'm a big IntelliJ fan. Said audio's to eclipse a long time ago.
So let's go ahead and move forward with this.
And then the last thing we need to do is set up our JPA entity. So we can bring in the JavaX persistence
annotation. Sets a GeneratedValue
and GenerationType IDENTITY. So it's going to set up that entity for us and that is our JPA domain class.
So now what we want to do is use Spring Data JPA and do that.
We are going to come over here and do a new package.
We're just going to call it repositories.
And this follows a repository model that is how Spring Data
JPA works.
And what we're going to do is declare an interface this time.
Now you don't have to call a CustomerRepository that is by convention you'd call it whatever you want
but remember more people are going to be reading your code than writing code.
So you know I'd be nice to the people behind you and follow very common conventions and one common convention
is to use Entity and then repository.
And in this case we are going to do an extends
we are going to extend out the JpaRepository and we are going to leverage Java generics
and say Customer and then the second property is going to be for the ID value.
So this is the entity and then ID must take a closer look at JpaRepository.
You can see here this is the Spring Data API interface and this again to give us a number of options
are being utilized.
So this really outboxed gives us basic functionality and what happens is Spring Data JPA is going to
provide us this class at runtime. So we are declaring the interface not going to get too far down the
rabbit hole on Spring Data JPA but the way it works is you declare the interface and then its going
to provide the implementation and we're going to be able to utilize that.
Now underneath the covers Spring Data JPA is going to take care of all that the mapping commands
of working with the database through Hibernate.
So that's completely abstracted through. So we are going to be able to use just the ORM.
It is an absolute huge time saver for us.
So let's go ahead and move on with that.
And another good design pattern here.
So now we have our domain and our repository.
What we'd like to do here is also create up a service layer.
So I'm going to create a new package called services. Lets  come in here.
Create CustomerService
and let's do that as a interface.
Now let's go ahead and declare what we want.
So we want
behind the.
So we want to a method in there to find the customer by ID.
And let's also get a list of customers
and I can pass anything on that.
Now we'll have to two methods here where we can get a find a customer by an ID or find all customers
now that come in here.
I'm going to do a alt+enter.
And IntelliJ is giving me an option to implement the interface.
So I'm going to go ahead and do that.
And this is a Java convention.
So we've created an interface and typically you are going to do,
Impl. That is a pretty common Java convention.
Now some people don't like use Impl.
If you only have one that's perfectly fine.
But if you had others like here I might be doing JpaImpl but it could also be doing a MongoDB
Impl.
So I get to have different persistent stores I'm going against and abstract it from my controller layer.
But in this case we are just going to be running against JPA. So I am just creating a very simple implementation
of it so let's go ahead and move forward with this.
IntelliJ is going to set that up.
Now let's go ahead and work on the implementation of this.
So first thing is we're going to want to get a handle on that repository for us so we come in here
and I'm declaring a final variable and I'm going to generate a constructor for that and we are going to
pass in the customer's repository so the only way that we can instantiate this class is to inject in
a CustomerRepository that looks like either a typo in a repository.
My mistake there.
So let's go ahead and work on the implementation.
So we are going to return back Customer.
So pretty simple implementation here.
And then also here, we're just going to return back a full list now.
I'm not showing you so many options as far as like paging and sorting we're just doing two very simple
implementations here and this will set up our data layer.
And let's go ahead.
Now we are going to be backing it with an H2 database. Our databases isn't going to have anything inside
of it so let's go ahead and work on setting up that database.
And a real common design pattern with Spring Framework is to use an H2 database and you want to initialize
it with data.
So we have a very handy way to do that.
And the Grail's guys used to call it bootstrap these have a bootstrap class for this.
So let's go ahead and create a new package here.
And I'm just calling it bootstrap. I am going to create a Java class and we'll just call it BootstrapData.
And if you're not familiar bootstrap is from similar to booting up a computer system and it's from American
slang where there's a saying of pull yourself up by your bootstraps.
So getting yourself up in the morning by your bootstraps.
So this is a kind of initialization routine and we're going to use a Spring Boot specific class.
There there's a couple of different ways to initialize data.
Here we are going to do this through Spring Boot this and you can do a pure Spring way by tapping into
application events.
But Spring Boot does have a couple of options for us.
We are going to implement a CommandLineRunner and we'll make this a Component.
So the Spring context will pick it up.
And see that IntelliJ saying that's a red line.
Let's go ahead and implement methods.
So it takes on those runs so now are class is happy but we want to initialize data.
So remember in our CustomerService implementation so we brought and the CustomerRepository.
So I am going to copy that over.
So remember cut and paste is bad.
So don't be doing cut and paste
go ahead and do that control + enter for constructor and allow IntelliJ to do it.
And if you're familiar with Spring.
Notice I'm not doing an autowire here.
So in Spring and it goes for three yes I do have required args constructor and just one constructor that
Spring is going to go ahead and autowire that for us.
Let's fix this CustomerRepository name here.
So come in here to refactor rename
you will fix that little typo of error, but you may see that IntelliJ did go in and redo that.
So for this
regenerate the property name.
And so now what we want to do is create a Customer.
I'm going to pause a video while I type this out.
I think you need to watch me set up POJOs. Okay I've done it a little bit and fleshed out creating some
Customer objects so you can see they're on line 25.
I start creating three new Customer objects.
No big mystery there.
I can see Michael Weston, Sam Axe, Fiona Glenanne and I'm not sure if Glenanne is spelled correctly or not
but if you watch my videos you know that I am a fan of Burn Notice. So these are the characters out of
Burn Notice. So we can use them as our test customers and example but it was on line 25, 30 and 35.
I'm creating new Customer objects.
And then you can see on 33 and 38.
I am saving those using the Spring Data repository interface.
Now you can see that it's been set up there and I come into the class on line 23.
I am doing some output of loading customer data and then you can see down here I'm saying that we loaded
X number of customers.
Let's go ahead and run this right now so I'm going to go ahead and run the Spring Boot REST application.
IntelliJ brings that up by default.
Let's go ahead and start that up.
And I just want to make sure that we are getting that output. See Spring Boot does start up and see
chatter from Hibernate.
You can see I made one small mistake here so it started and stopped.
So nothing's really going on here and there's a very simple explanation for that.
So if we look at the Maven POM and the Actuator, JPA, H2 but I forgot to bring in the spring-boot-starter-
web.
Go ahead and rectify that now
and you can see there several different options here.
web-reactive, webflux and web.
We just want the web and that brings in this traditional Spring
MVC. So let's bring that in.
And wait until IntelliJ imports the changes and what this is let's let's examine that a little
closer.
Where got nested under, there it is. That do a refresh so Spring Boot Starter Web is there and this bring
in a couple of different starter so we get JSON, Tomcat.
That's an important one.
Also Spring MVC but the way Spring Boot is going to be working especially Spring MVC, it brings
in better Tomcat Servlet container and Tomcat wasn't there on the classpath. So Spring Boot
didn't configure it.
So we started it up and shut down right away so let's go ahead and run this again and we'll see a much
different result.
So we'll see it start up and then stay running because we are running inside of Servlet container.
Now we can see there's additional chatter there in the log files.
We can see that it set up some endpoints for us and then we can see that it also loaded Customer data.
So we did bring in Spring Boot Actuator, so we do have a web application running right now.
Even though we have not defined a controller Spring Boot Actuator does give us some endpoints. We can
see hear them clicking on the health and we can see them bring up an application we are seeing that
the database is alive and we are good. So these are different health indicators available
for us through Spring Boot Actuator.
If I was writing like a RabbitMQ,
we do see metrics on Rabbit.
If I had other options and there there's a number of different options that we can add to the health
endpoint of it is a very rudimentary application.
But the real nice thing about having Spring Boot Actuator installed is it does give you a health check
endpoint.
So if we needed to monitor that application with some type of Enterprise tool to make sure that it's
alive.
This is an endpoint that we could utilize.
So now we do have our application up and running.
I'm going to shut it down for right now.
So and let's go ahead and collapse in Maven.
So basically we've set up our backend Persistent store.
We have a service that will respond to it but what we have not done yet is we have not created the controllers.
So let's go ahead and do that now.
So I'm going to come in here and create a new package and you might  guess I might call it controllers.
Now some people prefer to call as endpoints not necessarily wrong. Controller isn't a necessarily wrong.
It's a personal preference.
So now going to create a CustomerController.
Now what we want to do here is Spring MVC has annotation called RestController and this annotation I believe
is also available inside a Spring WebFlux but that is the reactive stack for web applications which
we are not addressing today.
So this doesn't in this class as a RestController.
So now the first thing that we want to do is get a hold of our service.
So now just go ahead and do
so.
That's our CustomerService installation.
I can do Command + N
for a constructor that's going to set up our class now by annotating this as a RestController and
providing this constructor what this is saying is it's a Spring component.
So RestController is Spring stereotype.
So this is to get wired up as a Spring bean and Spring
when it creates this class is automatically going to inject in an instance of our CustomerService and getting
a little red squiggly there so let's double check something.
And I actually did make a mistake here.
So this actually needs to be annotated with Service so that is another Spring stereotype. So now Spring
is going to manage this component also as a Spring bean.
And let's come back, back over to our controller and now you see a little squiggly went away so now that
it is available there in. So now lets go ahead and set up our first mapping.
So we returned back a list of customers.
So pretty simple implementation you know little red line there.
I've got a return statement.
So this is going to be the method that we are going to use for our customers.
But we want to make this a little more interesting because there's no mapping to it so we've set up
our Spring object at this point but we have not done anything to set up the URL mapping.
So that's what we need to tackle right now.
So there's an annotation for GetMapping. So for get requests coming to the controller we are going to
invoke this method but we have not provided URL mapping.
Now one thing I do like to do is come up here and do public and we'll call this String
so a very good habit in development is the don't repeat yourself principle.
So the base URL for this API something that's going to be utilizing a lot throughout it.
Now some people like to externalize this into a properties file so they can be overwritten at runtime.
I personally think declaring a static final String is ideal for this because that String isn't going to
change.
And chances are this URL value is probably not going to change but some something that is going to
be changing in different environments.
We have to externalise it but here this is perfectly fine to do. So now it sets up our String for the URL
that we want be utilizing.
And let's go ahead and map this.
So we do that with the RequestMapping annotation
and by doing this we are setting up for every method on this we are declaring that this BASE_URL
is going to be utilized. So any requests coming in the BASE_URL is going to be invoked.
Now I do have the option if I want to do something more complex I could do RequestMapping on the method
level but here what I'm saying is when I get a GET request to api/v1/customers I going to invoke this
method here.
So let's go ahead and test this now we're going to go ahead and run the application.
Now let's go up here and we can see
can see right here.
That that has been mapped so this is the debug output from Spring MVC.
So we have mapped api/v1/customers to method get on that method of the controller.
Now let's jump over to Postman. Its a handy tool for testing web requests.
And let's go over here to api/
v1 and I'm going to go ahead and say send that and now we can see that I did in fact get a
list of customers. So I can see that ID value, firstname, lastname.
Michael Weston, Sam Axe, Fiona Glenanne. So that is a pretty simple object model from the Customer so
that is a list of that.
But what if we wanted to get a customer by ID.
So I'd like to be able to come in here and do. Lets get Fiona she is far cuter than Michael anyways
so let's do that.
And now Fiona isn't found because this has not been mapped yet.
So let's come back over here to IntelliJ and implement that method.
So a pretty simple method that we are implementing here so we are return back customerService findBy
Id and we're going to pass in the ID value. Now its a pretty simple implementation but we need to set this
up a little bit.
So as far as how we want this behaves over let's do GetMapping and know what we want to do is come
in here and do /.
So this is telling Spring to look for the ID value in the URL.
So this is setting that up and GetMapping is kind of like a hybrid of annotations. It includes Request
Mapping so I could have done a GetMapping and RequestMapping but it's a cleaner to do it this
way just what the ID value there.
You'll see you'll see examples of both where they use a RequestMapping and GetMapping or just Request
Mapping and specify that as a parameter inside of the annotation for RequestMapping.
So there's a couple of different methods that you can see out. GetMapping the different annotations
were added to.
I want to say Spring 4.2, 4.1. I could be a little bit wrong on that.
Now what we need to do here is we set up this PathVariable but we have not done anything here so what
we want do is come in here and say @PathVariable and now what this is doing it's telling Spring.
And this is by convention because I'm using the ID value so that's the name of the method parameter
and it's going to match this.
So that is a convention.
So as long as I do the squiggly ID and have a method property called id.
Now I could have two or three of these with different names obviously as far as PathVariable see you
can't get a pretty long list of PathVariable in there.
So you're not limited as long as they have unique names.
Spring is going to handle that.
So that's always working in as far as that.
So now what they're saying is when we come in here and we have a value so api/v1/customers/ and
id value we are going to parse out that ID value out of URL and take it from a String to a Long and pass
that into our findCustomerById and then return back that Customer object.
So let's go ahead and because I'm not running a Spring Boot DevTools right now I am going to have to
balance Spring Boot for that.
Those changes take it back.
And again while starting up we are recycling the container we are going to bring back the updates to
database and we are going to insert data again from our bootstrap class. A very handy thing that we're
doing here.
So let's go ahead and toggle over to Postman now.
And we'll do a send on that. We got an internal server error.
See what happened there.
So it looks like we return back null type take a quick look here.
No we didn't.
OK.
I took a little closer look at this error and this kind of weird one.
And this was my mistake and let's come back over here and take a look at the implementation.
So we are getting a lazy initialization error and this is a mistake in my implementation.
We're here to serve some of implementation so I did get one. So if I come in here and take a look at that
this is returning back a reference and by that it's a little bit different.
So this is a pretty technical difference so I am doing a get one which turns back a reference and that
is not what I want because that reference needs to exist inside of the Hibernate context.
So Hibernate does a lot of lazy initialization which is really cool.
So things aren't pulled out of the database until they're needed.
So in this case that's what's happening in this case.
But I'm getting outside of the Hibernate context and that's bad because we don't want that.
But I do want to get that object and the proper thing to do.
And this is a mistake on my part why I wrote this rather than getOne I want to do findById
and that's going to return back an Optional and just going to say get and thats
my mistake there and this is a change.
inside of Spring Data. So Spring Data prior to Spring 5 would return back just the object and rather than
an Optional so that I'm going to do something bad here and just say get so that that is bad and IntelliJ is going
to give me a warning but that's just for demonstration purposes.
And the more recent versions of Spring Data they are returning back the Optional so you do have to
work with the Java 8 Optional class which is a very good thing to do and I do expand upon this in my
courses.
But for here let's go ahead and work with that.
I'm going to go ahead and reinitialize this. So restart Spring Boot and we'll come up with a fresh
database and get our code change in there.
You know we can see we are back up and running let's toggle back over to Postman.
And now if I come in here and do this I was actually running in the debugger.
Come back over here we can see that Fionna Glenanne is returned properly.
Now one more thing that I want to show you is how to create, create a new object so go ahead and create
a Customer.
So let's jump back over to IntelliJ now and we will implement that.
So first thing I'm going to work backwards this time.
So let's go to the CustomerController and actually stop this.
We don't need that running right now.
And stop him.
So I'm not the CustomerController so let's go and implement that at the controller level and I'll work
backwards.
So we're going to create a method that's going to take in a Customer object.
We want to return back customerService.saveCustomer and that will take in the Customer object and let's go
ahead and decorate this.
Now before we do the implementation of that method.
So what I want to do is a PostMapping.
So remember in our our RESTful APIs has to create a resource that's going to be through a POST and now
I'm going to show you one additional annotation here because a PostMapping.
We want that to return back a HTTP created status so we are going to use the ResponseStatus annotation.
There it is.
So that's set up to return back.
So and what this is saying.
So when I do a POST against api/v1/customers of a Customer object we are going to call customerService
to save customer which we have not implemented yet and we are going to return back a new Customer object
persisted one.
Let's go and implement that hitting option enter and I'm going to go ahead and create that method.
Can you say that IntelliJ automatically added that for us
let's go ahead and implement methods.
And in this case what we wanted to do is customerRepository.save(customer).
So I was going to say that new customer entity for us. You can see how easy it is working with Spring Data JPA
to go ahead and process that.
So let's go ahead and start this and we'll test that out and bring this up normally.
Now we are up and running and we have three customers. Must go and copy this. And now what we want to do is POST
I am going to paste in the JSON, we don't want the ID value and I can't remember Jesse lastname from Burn Notice
called Jessee someone I really don't remember his name Remember Jesse but don't remember his lastname.
So now we're going to post this out.
So we have firstname lastname and this is the JSON object so we do a post against this endpoint.
Let's go out and send that now and we see that it did not bind properly so we got firstname, lastname
null.
Now let's go ahead over here and do a
GET on that and these null properties are here because I made a very simple mistake. Because what's happening
as I did do the POST against that and it did return back Id value.
But what happened here is that I come back over here to my controller take a look at this.
I passed on a Customer.
But what happened was I didn't tell it to bind it
over the RequestBody.
So now with the RequestBbody annotation that tells us Spring MVC to bind it and underneath the covers,
what Spring is doing it does wire in the Jackson JSON library and it's going to do all the marshalling
and unmarshalling for us kind of seamlessly through the framework.
So let's go ahead and try this again.
I bet is going to work a lot better this time.
So I'll come back over to Postman.
We'll go ahead and use Jesse again and again I'm going to do a POST against localhost 8080 api/v1/customers
which is API that we've mapped and we are doing a POST.
Let's go ahead and do that.
And we need to set the content type.
And now I forget to set this Content-Type in Postman now we can see that ID for Jessee someone was
created.
So now it's come back over here and you can see this is where it gets persisted from the time that I
did not have that RequestBody annotation on the method.
So let's go on send that again.
And now we can see that is there. Come back over here
somebody now if we come back or get a five we can see that that data is in fact persisting. We can jump
back over to and IntelliJ right now and I'm not going to implement the remainder of the RequestMethod.
But let's go ahead and recap what we did here.
So let me stop.
So you get the screen back shut that down.
So first we went in and created the Customer entity.
So this is a standard JPA entity.
No big mystery here so this is using JPA.
And with Spring Boot in the way we're configured we are using the Hibernate implementation of JPA underneath
the covers.
Spring boot does bring that in and configure it automatically for us.
The next thing we went in as we went and created the JPA repository and this is the Spring Data JPA
a project which gives us a very robust tool set as far as working with JPA entities.
Now I only scratched around the surface of the capabilities of Spring Data JPA.
It's a very robust project and here I'm just demonstrating a very very simple application.
Now the next thing is we went in and created our bootstrap class and bootstrap data.
This class is going to run because it implements the interface CommandLineRunner. CommandLineRunner
is a Spring Boot interface that basically says run me on startup so that's what this is going to do.
It is a Spring component.
So what happens as the Spring context comes up, and injects in a CustomerRepository again this Spring
Data JPA and Spring Data JPA is providing us the runtime of that because we only provided the interface
in our configuration so Spring Data JPA is going to provide us the implementation at runtime that gets
injected into this class which gives us our persistence operations.
That's been getting persisted to an H2 in memory database.
That's why we are configured because we brought in H2 and Spring Boot is providing us all the auto configuration
for working with Spring H2 database.
If you notice we did not set up a data source that is being provided by Spring Boot for H2.
So this sets up and creates our initial set of data for us.
And then finally we went over here and created our rest control or the RestController sets up a mapping
then the RequestMapping and I did use a public static final String.
So I don't repeat myself when I need to use this String value again.
And here we are injecting in a CustomerService implementation and that's pretty common pattern here
to create a service like a service wrapper over your Spring Data repository.
Now I do have examples out there where I just work with the repository directly but here let's take
a quick look at the implementation of that.
The service implementations is for working with the repositories and in a real business application.
Typically you are going to have your web logic in the controller and any additional business logic
here inside of the service layer.
So the service layer is where you want to be implementing that business logic and not inside your controllers.
I've seen this principle really abused where doing crazy things inside of CustomerController like obtaining
database connections and everything and so controller and talk about violating the single responsibility
principle.
Very very bad practices.
But here we have a very simple application just trying to show you if you best best practices along
the way of using the implementation of a Customer or a service layer is going
to be a wrapper around our persistence layer which in this case is the Spring Data repositories.
So let's come back over here to the CustomerController I have mapped out three different paths on those
controller URLs.
So everything is utilizing the base URL api/v1/customers.
And when you're dealing with RESTful API is a lot of times you can see an api v1 and then have v2
and v3 as an API evolves you'll change the version to allow clients to use the old version and
switch over to the new version when they're already known here.
Like I said we have three implementations.
If you just do it get against that URL we are going to get a list.
If you do get with an ID value we're going to return back an entity with that ID from that query.
And then finally I set up a PostMapping so that we can POST JSON
to that endpoint
URL value. So in this case I am posting that and you say on line 37 I initially forgot to do
RequestBody there but that RequestBody annotations says look at the Requests body and parse out what's
there in those case.
We're expecting to see a Customer object in the form of JSON posts against that endpoint and we are
going to parse that into a Java object using Jackson underneath the covers and again Spring Boot is
configuring everything for us.
So that happens through the framework that gets parsed from JSON to POJO, to a Customer POJO and then
we pass that POJO into a service layer and of course that goes to Spring Data JPA.
Hibernate gets persisted to the database through JPA/Hibernate and then we return back object
to our client.
All right I hope you enjoyed this video we did cover quite a bit of ground and I wasn't able to go in
depth as I would like to on some of these subjects.
If you are interested check out my course.
I do have a very large course a very popular course on Spring Framework
5 on Udemy thats available where I do explore these topics and a lot more depth where I can get into
this and a lot more depth.
But this is a great overview.
I hope you really get a lot of benefit out of this.
You can see how quickly you can utilize the tooling of the Spring Framework and leverage the framework
to really deliver a lot of great functionality quickly once you become comfortable with those you can
really knock out a lot of business functionality.
And this is why this is just an example why that the Spring Framework is so popular in the Enterprise
today a lot of companies are adapting this Spring Framework because developers are have a great toolset
to rapidly develop Enterprise class software.